What is Blockchain?

At its simplest, Blockchain is a time-stamped series of immutable (tamper-proof) records of 
data that is managed by a cluster of computers not owned by any single entity. 
Each of these blocks of data (i.e. block) is secured and bound to each other using 
cryptographic principles (i.e. chain), hence the name.

Key Features of Blockchain:

    Decentralization: Before Bitcoin and BitTorrent, we were more used to centralized services. 
                        The idea is very simple. You have a centralized entity which stored all 
                        the data, and you'd have to interact solely with this entity to get the 
                        information you needed. Another example of a centralized system is the 
                        banks. They store all your money, and the only way that you can pay 
                        someone is by going through the bank.

                      Blockchain introduces the concept of decentralization. Instead of 
                      needing a third party to facilitate transactions, transactions can 
                      be facilitated directly between peers.

    Transparency and Anonymity: One of the most misinterpreted features of the blockchain is 
                                the idea of "transparency." Some people say that because of it, 
                                everyone can see what transactions you've made, and your identity 
                                is exposed. This isn't entirely true.

                                When a person makes a public key, they make it with their 
                                private key, which remains hidden. So, while people might 
                                see a public key (an address) making transactions, they 
                                don’t know who the actual person is.

    Immutable: Immutability, in the context of the blockchain, means that once something has 
    been entered into the blockchain, it cannot be tampered with. This adds a level of 
    security to the blockchain.